Now let's imagine that we would like the counter class to have some configuration options and then whenever
we use this class if that's supposed controller a user controller or any other place we would like to
make sure that it has the same configuration and then well we wouldn't even like to create this class
ourselves.
So we have a tool for that.
And in light of all it is called a service container.
So this class can be called a service and service container is just a tool that lets you configure how
certain classes should be created and how any parameters or dependencies to it should be passed.
So let's go to their counter class and see what might be such a parameter.
So this is definitely the timeout at which the user is considered to be still on the page.
So in the class code it is just one minute but you might want to be globally configurable so we'll add
that using a parameter that is being passed through to the constructor.
So this is an integer called timeout so let's initialize a field called timeout so we can later keep
this value.
Okay.
And then also let's define a private field called timeout so it can't be modified outside of this class
now since this is now a required parameter we'll have to change how we create this class in every possible
place where this class is being used.
So this introduce introduces some problems because well if you have great tools like some I.D. You might
want to find all the references of this class where it is being used for example using Find all references
even in Visual Studio code of course BHP storm also has options like that.
But then whenever you actually modify something with this class then you have to change it in every
place.
This class was used.
Now we are quite lucky because it is being used only in two places.
But let's imagine that there are other 10 classes depending on the counter and you modify the counter
and then you have to modify all those 10 classes.
So this seems like a nightmare.
So surface container is basically one place where you specify how your classes should be created.
What should be passed to them and then you resolve something out of the service container
so you would.
You would usually register your own services in the service container inside the app service provider
file but of course you can also create another provider class and then register different services.
So let's keep it simple and see how we can register our first service in service container.
Right now no on the every service provider you have access to this app which basically is an instance
of the application and also a service container.
And it has the method called BMD which allows you to register a binding with the container so it accepts
a name of the service.
So this can be either let's say counter if we want a service for the counter class but you can also
provide class name or interface name the fully qualified name I mean and this is usually a preferred
option.
So what you will do right now is you will register a service using the fully qualified counter class
name mind that import that was added here.
So that's the name second parameter is a closure which accepts an instance of the app.
And basically the service container.
So in case you would like to pass something to this counter then you have access to the app.
So the app will always be passed by a lot of help to disclosure so you don't have to worry about that
and now basically inside disclosure you specify how this class should be created.
So we do return new counter
and basically that's it.
So since this actually accepts one parameter which is a timeout you can pass something here so let's
say this would be five like five seconds.
So now that we have this parameter timeout inside the counter we can modify this constant to be this
time out
and also here this time out so we have registered something with the service container.
Now let's see how we can actually fetch this or resolve it from the service container.
So instead of trying to create a new instance of this class we can now resolve it.
So let's see how we can do that now instead of creating this class ourselves.
We can resolve it using the re solve helper function from the service container and this accepts the
service name which happens to be a class name so we can use counter class.
We've already imported this class so it should be available to us and then we can do the same thing
in the user controller.
So now we don't have to really worry about what is being passed to the counter how it is created.
There is a one place where this is created with the same settings and we just resolve it whenever we
we need that.
So say the changes and let's verify if that still works.
So you can see that everything is working fine nothing did break.
We see the message that there is one person on the page.
So everything is fine.
Sometimes you might only want that one instance of a class is being created and then can be resolved
globally.
So what I mean by that is for example we have to always pass a five to this counter because we want
that.
We want this to be let's say five minutes since the user is considered expired.
But then let's see what happens if we will resolve this multiple times.
So inside both controller let's add a couple of dumps with the call to resolve maybe we can do that
three times
okay.
Now inside the app service provider instead of passing five let's pass our random end which will generate
a random integer from zero to let's say 100 and now let's see what happens so let's refresh the document
and I will zoom it so we can see.
So we called Resolve three times and with every call we get a different number pass.
So eighty seven eighty nine and forty seven.
So what this is actually doing is it's each time you resolve this from the service container it's actually
creating a brand new instance of the counter sometimes you might want that but we don't want the same
class because it doesn't hold any important data other than a configuration which we would like to be
global.
So instead of BMD you can use another method called single dom.
And if you do not know single is just designed pattern when you have one instance of the class created
and then the same instance is available everywhere.
So if you will do single Don and well let's not changed in this parameter right now.
And when you refresh now you can see that it was created once with a random value of 52 but then it
stays 52.
The next time we resolve this service from the surface container.
So let's return that to normal size and plus the value that we want it.
So this was five.
Now since we are actually using configuring this class or this service in one place we can also use
something else.
So instead of passing five here we have some configuration files and additionally our environment variables
and also the DOT and file for the development.
So this is where we keep settings and configuration options.
So why not define a variable inside dot in the file let's say counter time out to be five
and now we can get this from environment variable using and provide the name.
And now instead of having a constant in your code that then would be maybe hard to find you wouldn't
know why it's five where to find this configuration.
Now everything is inside and Dot and file or environment variable on your server.
It's also created once in one place with the specific configuration and then everywhere you will need
this class you can use resolve to fetch the same instance of this class which basically is fine for
us because we only need one instance with one configuration option.
So this would be about the service container.
Let's follow to the next lecture when we'll learn a little bit more about service containers dependency
injection and things of this topic.